administrivia/meetingNotes.md, before:

#4/3

#### todo

Runtime
- get end state program written in Stitch (goal of what we want to write)
- should be able to code PRNG
- goal -> Stitch compiler should generate C code that *always* compiles

Testing
- start setting up regression testing suite
- come up with tests

LRM
- too many operators
- put grammar in, not just examples
- get rid of sizeof(), all bit operations
- be more formal (K&R style)
- be explicit regarding typechecking (esp. in array decl)

#10/27

#### questions

how do we access local variables in the c version of the stitch loops?
- maybe build a struct and stuff all the variables into there

need to deal with accumulators
- have some way to declare a variable 'thread-local' 
- then have an accumulator function

#10/20

#### todo
- take matrix multiplication and make it work
- put in our language, so we know exactly what is what
- manually code in c w/ pthreads
- start w/ matrix multiplication
- when it comes to complier, start w/ add one
- LRM needs to be almost done (parser/scanner simultaniously)
- complete and formal spec

#### foreach in
- problems: no concept of location, need to know the nearest neigbor?
- limit two dimentions
- other idea -> foreach a(i,j) [a = matrix, (i,j) = (row, columns)]

#### dot product
- not an overloaded function -> must be user defined

#### matrix
- take a look at matlab, see how it does things -> how can we add async to this.

#### to ask
- spawn n threads, or cap threads to proc count, maintain a pool of items to process
- disallow async IO or let me be on the programmer (training wheels?)
- higher dimentional arrays?
	- row/column -> how do we generalize?
	- nth (3th, 4th);
	- how to declare?
- explicit type decleration for loops -> probably!

#10/15

#### for next time (10/20 - 2:45)
- settle on grammer/ syntax
- have 3 small programs

#### restriction of loops - black- and white- list.  Start with realy simple loop primitive that we know how to translate (blacklist everything), whitelist stuff we can do.  
- ex. for loop w/ step
- const. vs. var index increment
 - do you have to know stride at compile time
 - cover matrix manipulation -> maybe more
- reading / writing(?) multiplexing -> how do you split data stream
- who's responsable for knowing the size of the array
 - for (i in row of array) -> do this
- gaussian elimination, invert a matrix, any scientific computing, etc. 
 - steal example from openMP
- hello world -> +1 to every element in an array
- better array syntax then C (ex. add array literal)

#### next deliverable - lang. ref. manual
- should be exhaustive and well defined (allowed and not allowed).
- correct and unambiguous grammar
- working scanner and parser
- if we go after parallel array ops -> need ints, floating point, don't need strings, etc.
 - bools
- instead of 'async' keyword, have special for loop?

####To Ask:
- Big question: Should we do positive or negative constraints, maybe a combination? How do we start to implement constraints in our language?
- Can/should we handle I/O with multithreading? Reading is possible, but writing is not(?).
- What other applications are there besides matrix manipulation that we can do with multithreading?
- Start on the parser?  Where to start - basic math ops, etc. out of the way?

####Our next steps: 
- Take the pthread code and write same version in our language.
- Come up with a “Hello world” program for our language.

#10/6

###Big challange - what can I do in parallel?

####Q: How does marking a loop async work
- encapsulate and spawn a thread
- tim seems to know
- complier will figure out what needs to be locked?
  - very tricky (ex, looping through arrays with concurent async ops)

####Look at OpenMP
- can annotate loops as async, paralellizes them, but still blocks
  - may want to do something similar, OpenMP Lite
- look at old lecture notes from PLT

####Issues
- need to know if there are inter-thread dependencies
- focus on specific kinds of problems - ex. scientific computation
- very limited amount of async loops - ex. no pointers

####First step
- think about a simple program
- compile it w/ pthreads
- make sure we're all on the same page
- Example programs:
	-Two matrices filled with random numbers, then multiplied together.
	-Reading from a file.

Things to bring up for next meeting: 
	File I/O, writing to buffer, pointer stuff

#Reference manuel
- what does it mean to put async infront of a loop
  - what limits
  - semantics of loops
  
#Other thoughts
- don't worry about strings
- don't worry about too many types
  - def/var

Commit message:

added my notes from meeting

administrivia/meetingNotes.md, after:

#4/3

#### todo

Runtime
- get end state program written in Stitch (goal of what we want to write)
- should be able to code PRNG
- goal -> Stitch compiler should generate C code that *always* compiles
- write stitch loops in Stitch, and write the equivalent C code to see how that would work.
- start coding our program that we’d like to show off for the final project. Use that as a goal to build our compiler.

Testing
- start setting up regression testing suite
- come up with tests

LRM
- too many operators
- put grammar in, not just examples
- get rid of sizeof(), all bit operations
- be more formal (K&R style)
- be explicit regarding typechecking (esp. in array decl), note: Can’t do type checking in the grammar, has to be done in the “static-semantic pass” phase.

####Notes/Questions to be addressed
- can you return, break from a stitch loop?
- turning local variables into global variables, would not be able to do recursive calls then.
	- possibly use a struct to pass the local variables.
- should be able to code a random number generator function in Stitch.


#10/27

#### questions

how do we access local variables in the c version of the stitch loops?
- maybe build a struct and stuff all the variables into there

need to deal with accumulators
- have some way to declare a variable 'thread-local' 
- then have an accumulator function

#10/20

#### todo
- take matrix multiplication and make it work
- put in our language, so we know exactly what is what
- manually code in c w/ pthreads
- start w/ matrix multiplication
- when it comes to complier, start w/ add one
- LRM needs to be almost done (parser/scanner simultaniously)
- complete and formal spec

#### foreach in
- problems: no concept of location, need to know the nearest neigbor?
- limit two dimentions
- other idea -> foreach a(i,j) [a = matrix, (i,j) = (row, columns)]

#### dot product
- not an overloaded function -> must be user defined

#### matrix
- take a look at matlab, see how it does things -> how can we add async to this.

#### to ask
- spawn n threads, or cap threads to proc count, maintain a pool of items to process
- disallow async IO or let me be on the programmer (training wheels?)
- higher dimentional arrays?
	- row/column -> how do we generalize?
	- nth (3th, 4th);
	- how to declare?
- explicit type decleration for loops -> probably!

#10/15

#### for next time (10/20 - 2:45)
- settle on grammer/ syntax
- have 3 small programs

#### restriction of loops - black- and white- list.  Start with realy simple loop primitive that we know how to translate (blacklist everything), whitelist stuff we can do.  
- ex. for loop w/ step
- const. vs. var index increment
 - do you have to know stride at compile time
 - cover matrix manipulation -> maybe more
- reading / writing(?) multiplexing -> how do you split data stream
- who's responsable for knowing the size of the array
 - for (i in row of array) -> do this
- gaussian elimination, invert a matrix, any scientific computing, etc. 
 - steal example from openMP
- hello world -> +1 to every element in an array
- better array syntax then C (ex. add array literal)

#### next deliverable - lang. ref. manual
- should be exhaustive and well defined (allowed and not allowed).
- correct and unambiguous grammar
- working scanner and parser
- if we go after parallel array ops -> need ints, floating point, don't need strings, etc.
 - bools
- instead of 'async' keyword, have special for loop?

####To Ask:
- Big question: Should we do positive or negative constraints, maybe a combination? How do we start to implement constraints in our language?
- Can/should we handle I/O with multithreading? Reading is possible, but writing is not(?).
- What other applications are there besides matrix manipulation that we can do with multithreading?
- Start on the parser?  Where to start - basic math ops, etc. out of the way?

####Our next steps: 
- Take the pthread code and write same version in our language.
- Come up with a “Hello world” program for our language.

#10/6

###Big challange - what can I do in parallel?

####Q: How does marking a loop async work
- encapsulate and spawn a thread
- tim seems to know
- complier will figure out what needs to be locked?
  - very tricky (ex, looping through arrays with concurent async ops)

####Look at OpenMP
- can annotate loops as async, paralellizes them, but still blocks
  - may want to do something similar, OpenMP Lite
- look at old lecture notes from PLT

####Issues
- need to know if there are inter-thread dependencies
- focus on specific kinds of problems - ex. scientific computation
- very limited amount of async loops - ex. no pointers

####First step
- think about a simple program
- compile it w/ pthreads
- make sure we're all on the same page
- Example programs:
	-Two matrices filled with random numbers, then multiplied together.
	-Reading from a file.

Things to bring up for next meeting: 
	File I/O, writing to buffer, pointer stuff

#Reference manuel
- what does it mean to put async infront of a loop
  - what limits
  - semantics of loops
  
#Other thoughts
- don't worry about strings
- don't worry about too many types
  - def/var
